JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: a
wild ride on
the road to the White House.
Governor Chris
Christie endorses Donald Trump,
after a rough
night for the Republican
front-runner on the
debate stage.
Plus, my report from South
Carolina, as Democrats
ready to vote tomorrow.
Then, in Iran, voters turn out
in droves for
the first major election since
the controversial
nuclear deal.
Also ahead, it's going to be a
very white
Oscars this weekend. What will
it take to
bring more diversity to the
silver screen?
IDRIS ELBA, Actor: I realized I
could only
play so many best friends or
gang leaders.
Right? I knew that I wasn't
going to land
a leading role. I knew there
wasn't enough
imagination, not yet, for the
industry to
be seeing me as a lead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And it's Friday.
Mark Shields
and "The National Review"'s
Ramesh Ponnuru
are here to analyze the week's
news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Republican
presidential
race took another unexpected
plot twist today,
with Donald Trump collecting a
major endorsement
from a former rival. It came
just a few days
before the all-important Super
Tuesday contests.
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE (R), New
Jersey: I am
proud to be here to endorse
Donald Trump for
president of the United States.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In a single
stroke, New Jersey
Governor Chris Christie put
Donald Trump back
on the offensive after his
rivals scored points
in last night's debate.
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE: We don't
need another
Washington politician in the
White House,
do we?
AUDIENCE: No!
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE: Do we need
a first-term
United States senator in the
White House?
AUDIENCE: No!
GOV. CHRIS CHRISTIE: We need a
first-class
president, and we're going to
have it in Donald
Trump.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Republican
front-runner
then took his turn, blasting
both of the senators
still in the race, first Marco
Rubio.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Let's talk about our lightweight
senator from
Florida who's losing big in the
polls.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And then Ted Cruz
of Texas.
DONALD TRUMP: You know, I have
had a lot of
difficulties with Ted, because
he does lies.
You know, I have dealt with much
tougher.
A guy like Rubio is a baby, but
a guy like
Ted is tougher.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Rubio had spent
much of his
morning rally in Dallas arguing
that billionaire
Trump is deceiving working-class
voters.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
You all have friends who are
thinking about
voting for Donald Trump. Friends
do not let
friends vote for con artists.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: He's going to
Americans
that are struggling, Americans
that are hurting,
and he's implying, "I'm fighting
for you because
I'm a tough guy." A tough guy?
This guy inherited
$200 million. He's never faced
any struggle.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And in Nashville,
Tennessee,
Cruz questioned Trump's
conservative credentials.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate:
Donald Trump said: I can be a
totally different
person after I'm elected. I can
be -- this
is Donald speaking -- the most
politically
correct person on earth.
Let me tell you something, Sean.
The day after
I'm elected president, I'm the
exact same
person that I am today.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Those were
extensions of the
charges and countercharges that
lit up last
night's Houston debate, with
Rubio and Cruz
trying to slow Trump's momentum,
first on
immigration.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: You're the
only person on
this stage that has ever been
fined for hiring
people to work on your projects
illegally.
You hired some workers from
Poland
DONALD TRUMP: No, no, I'm the
only one on
the stage that's hired people.
You haven't
hired anybody.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: In fact, some
of the people...
(CROSSTALK)
DONALD TRUMP: And by the way, I
have hired
-- and by the way, I have hired
tens of thousands
of people over at my job. You've
hired nobody.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: Yes, you've
hired a thousand
from another country...
DONALD TRUMP: You've had nothing
but problems
with your credit cards, et
cetera. So don't
tell me about that.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: Let me just
say -- let me
finish the statement. This is
important.
DONALD TRUMP: You haven't hired
one person,
you liar.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO: He hired
workers from Poland.
And he had to pay a million
dollars or so
in a judgment from...
DONALD TRUMP: That's wrong.
That's wrong.
Totally wrong.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Cruz also jumped
in, criticizing
Trump for donating to senators
known as the
Gang of Eight, who led an
immigration reform
effort.
SEN. TED CRUZ: Donald funded the
Gang of Eight.
If you look at the eight members
of the Gang
of Eight, Donald gave over
$50,000 to three
Democrats and two Republicans.
And when you're
funding open border politicians,
you shouldn't
be surprised when they fight for
open borders.
DONALD TRUMP: I have had an
amazing relationship
with politicians -- with
politicians both
Democrat, Republican, because I
was a businessman.
You don't have one Republican
senator, not
one. You don't have the
endorsement of one
Republican senator, and you work
with these
people. You should be ashamed of
yourself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the end, Trump
waved away
both rivals, calling Rubio a
choke artist
and Cruz a liar.
But despite the strident words
from all sides,
the front-runner insisted he can
expand and
unify the party.
DONALD TRUMP: I will do very
well with Hispanics.
But I'm telling you also, I'm
bringing people,
Democrats over, and I'm bringing
independents
over, and we're building a much
bigger, much
stronger Republican Party.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He gets another
chance to prove
that Super Tuesday night, with
more than 600
delegates up for grabs.
But, first, Democrats in South
Carolina will
have their say in a primary
tomorrow. We will
take a close look at a vital
voting bloc there
after the news summary.
The small town of Hesston,
Kansas, is now
the latest left to cope with a
shooting rampage.
Authorities today identified
Cedric Ford as
the gunman who yesterday shot
three people
to death and wounded 15. They
said he'd just
been ordered to stay away from
someone who
sought legal protection against
him.
Within 90 minutes of that order,
Ford opened
fire on random vehicles, stormed
into a lawn
mower parts factory, where he
was employed,
and gunned down co-workers. It
ended when
he was killed by police.
T. WALTON, Harvey County
Sheriff: That particular
officer is a hero out of all
this. Understand,
there's probably 200 or 300 more
people in
that building while this is
going on. This
man wasn't going to stop
shooting. The only
reason he stopped shooting was
because that
officer stopped the shooter.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Kansas
incident came less
than a week after an Uber driver
killed six
people in a mass shooting in
Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Heavy new airstrikes blasted
rebel targets
in Syria today in the run-up to
a scheduled
cease-fire. Activists said
Russian planes
carried out the attacks. A
barrage of explosions
cracked the skies over suburbs
of Damascus.
Monitoring groups said the area
was hit 40
times and dozens more struck
north of Aleppo.
Despite the onslaught, Russian
President Vladimir
Putin said in Moscow that his
government is
committed to enforcing the truce
deal.
VLADIMIR PUTIN, Russian
President (through
translator): From midnight
Damascus time on
February 27, Syrian forces,
Russian forces
and the American-led coalition
will halt all
military actions against the
groups that have
declared their readiness to
cease fire. Military
actions against them will not be
conducted.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Islamic State
group and
the Nusra Front, linked to
al-Qaida, are not
parties to the cease-fire. But a
special U.N.
envoy said today that if the
truce largely
holds, peace talks will resume
on March 7.
This was Election Day in
Ireland, and anti-austerity
parties hoped to gain ground.
Prime Minister
Enda Kenny and his center-right
party are
seeking a second five-year term.
But there
are signs that his coalition may
lose its
majority, leaving a hung
Parliament. Ballot-counting
will begin Saturday.
Dow Chemical will pay $835
million to settle
a long-running lawsuit, now that
the Supreme
Court has lost its conservative
majority.
The company said today the death
of Supreme
Court Justice Antonin Scalia
makes it less
certain of winning class-action
cases. A lower
court convicted Dow of fixing
prices for polyurethane,
a widely used industrial
chemical.
World soccer's governing body,
FIFA, has elected
a new leader to lead it out of
scandal. A
Swiss candidate, Gianni
Infantino, was tapped
by a majority today in a vote in
Zurich. The
delegates also adopted reforms
to make FIFA
more accountable.
Infantino said he wants to start
anew.
GIANNI INFANTINO, FIFA
President: We will
restore the image of FIFA, and
the respect
of FIFA, and everyone in the
world will applaud
us and will applaud all of you
for what we
will do in FIFA in the future.
We have to
be proud of FIFA, and everyone
has to be proud
of FIFA and they have to be
proud of what
we will do together.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The new president
replaces
Sepp Blatter, also Swiss, who
resigned amid
charges of massive corruption.
Dozens of soccer
officials around the world have
been indicted,
and FIFA is reviewing how Russia
and Qatar
won the right to host the next
two World Cups.
The United Nations is out with a
warning that
two-fifths of bees, butterflies,
and related
pollinating species are heading
toward extinction.
The warning follows more than
two years of
research around the globe. It
cites a range
of factors, ranging from
pesticide use to
climate change to habitat loss.
Wall Street finished this Friday
without much
momentum. The Dow Jones
industrial average
lost 57 points to close just
below 16640.
The Nasdaq rose eight points,
and the S&P
500 slipped three. But for the
week, all three
indexes were about 1.5 percent
higher.
And a 23-year-old Hawaiian man
is $75,000
richer after winning a rare
giant wave surfing
contest in Hawaii. John John
Florence was
one of 29 brave souls tackling
the massive
waves Thursday off Oahu. The
contest is held
only rarely, when waves reach 40
feet in height.
Yesterday, some of them topped
60 feet.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the crucial
African-American vote in the
Democratic election;
Mark Shields and Ramesh Ponnuru
give their
take on today's surprise
endorsement of Donald
Trump; Iran's elections, a key
test for the
moderates in the wake of the
nuclear deal;
solutions for the Oscars'
diversity problem;
plus, a presidential serenade.
Now to South Carolina.
Donald Trump scored a commanding
win there
last weekend on the Republican
side. Tomorrow,
Democrats head to the polls.
I just got back from the
Palmetto State, where
victory hinges on a key group of
voters.
For Hillary Clinton and Bernie
Sanders, South
Carolina represents not only the
largest electorate
they have faced so far this
year, but the
first big test of popularity
among a crucial
Democratic voting bloc.
MAN: We have got somebody that
definitely
will stand with us.
JUDY WOODRUFF:
African-Americans, in the last
election, they accounted for 55
percent of
the primary vote here. It's no
coincidence
both candidates have been
targeting their
messages almost exclusively at
that audience.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Something's wrong when
African-Americans are
three times as likely to be
denied a mortgage
as white people are.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
When African-American youth
unemployment is
51 percent, you know what? We're
going to
create jobs and educational
opportunities
for our kids, not more jails.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Clinton has a
long connection
with this state, dating back
when she was
a young law student, working on
juvenile justice
issues, and continuing through
her husband's
presidency.
The mayor of the capital city,
Columbia, Stephen
Benjamin..
CHILDREN: We present to you the
45th president
of the United States.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... says many
African-Americans
think of the Clintons as
champions of the
disenfranchised.
STEPHEN BENJAMIN, Mayor of
Columbia, South
Carolina: Fighting for criminal
justice reform,
fighting for education, fighting
for health
care.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That affection
has given Clinton
a solid base in this state,
particularly among
older African-American women,
the voting bloc
that turned out at the highest
rate of any
group in 2012, and which is
expected to do
so again this year.
It's one of the reasons why
women were prominently
featured at nearly every Clinton
event in
South Carolina this week.
State Representative Chandra
Dillard was in
the audience when Clinton spoke
to her black
sorority group.
CHANDRA DILLARD (D), South
Carolina State
Representative: I see her as
someone being
able to bring people together,
which will
enhance policy-making,
hopefully, with our
Congress, because Secretary
Clinton has been
in that position to bring
parties together
to work on issues. She's done
it. She can
do it again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Dillard's
colleague, state
Representative Justin Bamberg,
acknowledges
Clinton has a built-in
advantage, but he hopes
that when people listen to
Sanders' message,
they will do as he did and
switch their support.
JUSTIN BAMBERG (D), South
Carolina State Representative:
The younger folks aren't
thinking about history
as much. They're thinking
forward. They're
looking at the fact that, man,
I'm in my early
20s, and when I graduate
college, I'm going
to owe more in student loan debt
than I would
if I had not gone to college and
just went
and bought a house.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Bamberg says
Sanders' promise
of free college tuition and a
plan to narrow
the income inequality gap has
helped him gain
some traction in the state, as
has his tough
stance on Wall Street donors.
JUSTIN BAMBERG: I don't think he
will waver
to the special interest or those
large groups
with the most money that
oftentimes can cause
decisions to be made that aren't
in the people's
best interest.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sanders supporter
Gloria Bromell
Tinubu is even more pointed in
her criticism
of the Clintons' relationship
with big money.
GLORIA BROMELL TINUBU, Sanders
Supporter:
It's clear that they were are
the leaders
and are the leaders of what is
called the
new Democrats, which is pro-big
business,
pro-big money, pro-war, right,
anti-welfare,
anti-government that will
support poor people,
but always for a government that
will support
rich.
JUDY WOODRUFF: University of
South Carolina
political scientist Todd Shaw
says, while
Sanders still lags in the polls
here -- most
show him more than 20 points
behind Clinton
-- his predominantly young
followers seem
to be more enthusiastic.
TODD SHAW, University of South
Carolina: Sanders
supporters say that he has the
vision thing
down. He's visionary. Yes, these
are bold
and idealistic questions, but
they should
be questions that we're raising.
And he may
be -- he's certainly appealing
to a pent-up
frustration about what hasn't
occurred.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Shaw says Clinton
has been
wise to tie herself closely to
President Obama,
who's enormously popular among
black Democrats
here.
TODD SHAW: It's a pretty smart
move, because,
of course, she can make that
claim, having
been the secretary -- his former
secretary
of state, that she can say,
well, he -- and
she does say, in effect, it was
Hillarycare
before it was Obamacare, but I
give him credit
that he carried it out. And now
here's where
I'm going to now carry this
football forward.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Twenty-year-old
Jada Williams
says that's why she's
volunteering for Clinton,
and not Sanders.
JADA WILLIAMS, Clinton
Supporter: I think
that we don't need a big
revolution. I don't
think we need to make America
great again.
I feel like we're doing well.
And Hillary
is the person who is going to
make us continue
to do well and put us towards
what people
feel like is the American dream.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The other factor
at play here
and in next week's Super Tuesday
contests
is a focus on racial injustice.
It's an issue keenly felt in a
state where
a white gunman killed nine black
people worshiping
in church, as well as several
highly publicized
cases of alleged police
misconduct.
This past week, Clinton
campaigned alongside
the mothers of victims of
violence, including
Sybrina Fulton, the mother of
Trayvon Martin.
SYBRINA FULTON, Mother of
Trayvon Martin:
And we have an opportunity to
have someone
that's going to stand up for us
as African-Americans,
for us as women. I say my vote
goes to Hillary
Clinton.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And in a TV ad
narrated by
actor Morgan Freeman, Clinton
tackles the
issue head on.
MORGAN FREEMAN, Actor: She says
their names.
Trayvon Martin.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Shot to
death.
MORGAN FREEMAN: Dontre Hamilton.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Unarmed.
MORGAN FREEMAN: Sandra Bland.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Sandra
Bland did nothing
wrong.
MORGAN FREEMAN: And makes their
mothers' fight
for justice her own.
JADA WILLIAMS: She's saying: I
want to help
the African-Americans here in
this community.
I want everyone to come together
because we
do have a problem here and it
needs to be
addressed.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sanders tackles
racial injustice
in part by linking it to his
central rallying
cry of economic inequality.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: There is
nothing we cannot
accomplish.
Vouching for him, movie director
Spike Lee.
SPIKE LEE, Director: Ninety-nine
percent of
Americans were hurt by the great
recession
of 2008 and many are still
recovering, and
that's why I am officially
endorsing my brother
Bernie Sanders.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But Sanders also
stresses his
lifelong activism for civil
rights, going
back to the 1960s.
NARRATOR: He was there when Dr.
King marched
on Washington, unafraid to
challenge the status
quo to end racial profiling,
take on police
misconduct, and take down a
system that profits
from mass imprisonment.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: There is no
president
who will fight harder to end
institutional
racism.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
GLORIA BROMELL TINUBU: He's
consistently fought
for rights for all people,
equality and justice.
And it's not just a passing
thing with him.
It's something that he's being
doing for close
to 50 years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Sanders' camp
acknowledges
she's ahead. Their goal is to
hold down the
size of her margin here, as they
to try to
pick off some of the
delegate-rich Super Tuesday
states.
But with African-Americans
making up a powerful
portion of many states coming
up, Clinton's
advantage with blacks in South
Carolina amounts
to a serious and enduring
challenge for him.
And that brings us to Shields
and Ponnuru.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
Ramesh Ponnuru of "The National
Review."
David Brooks is away.
And, welcome, gentlemen.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
RAMESH PONNURU, Senior Editor,
"The National
Review": Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, hold that
thought about
the Democrats and about South
Carolina. I
want to ask you about that.
But, Mark, I have to start with
the Donald
Trump endorsement by Chris
Christie today.
What did you make of this, the
timing of it,
the fact of it?
MARK SHIELDS: Judy, the old line
of Speaker
Tip O'Neill, who said all
politics is local,
all politics is personal.
Chris Christie, who was going to
be the "tell
it like it is" candidate in
2016, was eclipsed
totally by Donald Trump, and
blames his defeat,
where he concentrated all his
effort, energy,
attention and resources in New
Hampshire,
where he finished sixth, he
blames it on Marco
Rubio's super PAC, which ran a
negative ad
on Christie as Christie was just
starting
to get some traction in that
state which highlighted
Chris Christie's physical
embrace of the president
of the United States, Barack
Obama, who was
bringing aid to the devastated
state of New
Jersey after Hurricane Sandy,
just prior to
the election of 2012, and
mentioned the nine
credit lowering rating -- the
times that the
state's credit rating had been
lowered in
Chris Christie's administration.
And he -- it was really quite
personal why
he endorsed Donald Trump. He
said he's known
him and all the rest of it. I
think that's
essentially the reason.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're saying
payback.
RAMESH PONNURU: Well, Christie
spoke about
Rubio negatively almost as much
as he spoke
positively about Donald Trump
today.
MARK SHIELDS: That's exactly
right.
RAMESH PONNURU: I think that the
endorsement
helps Chris -- excuse me --
helps Trump in
two ways. It also helps
Christie.
But it helps Trump in two ways.
One is, it
signals that it's OK for elected
Republican
officials to support him. And,
in fact, right
after he did, Maine's Governor
Paul LePage,
who had endorsed Christie, went
ahead and
endorsed Trump too.
And the second thing it does is,
it takes
the coverage away from questions
about his
university defrauding people,
away from his
hiring illegal immigrants, and
puts it onto
his momentum, which is where he
needs it to
be.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which is all
about last night's
debate, which was a remarkable
spectacle,
Mark Shields.
I don't know that we have seen
anything -- I
guess we haven't seen anything
like it in
this cycle.
MARK SHIELDS: No.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you
account for Rubio
and Cruz finally coming out and
going after
Donald Trump?
MARK SHIELDS: Desperation.
Donald Trump now stands on the
cusp of Super
Tuesday. Just a little check of
history, this
in -- the Southeastern
Conference, SEC primaries,
these are states that include
Alabama, Arkansas,
Georgia, Oklahoma.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Texas.
MARK SHIELDS: Oklahoma and
Tennessee.
But these states were all won by
the previous
winners of the Iowa caucus, Mike
Huckabee
or Rick Santorum, by one or both
of them.
They're states with large
evangelical populations.
There, cultural and religious
candidates expect
to do well.
We recall that this was going to
be where
Ted Cruz of Texas ran up the
score.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
MARK SHIELDS: And what do we
find out is going
on prior to the debate last
night? That, in
all these states, Donald Trump,
the most aggressively
secular candidate running in
either party,
is, in fact, leading.
So there had to be a sense of
stopping him.
The biggest winner of the night,
in my judgment,
were former President George
H.W. Bush and
first lady Barbara Bush, who
honored their
obligation to show up in their
hometown at
a time when they accepted
expecting that their
son Jeb would be one of the main
competitors,
and they still graciously showed
up. And they
just deserve...
JUDY WOODRUFF: We saw them
seated in the back
of the room.
MARK SHIELDS: They just deserve,
I think,
our admiration and respect.
But I just thought it was
remarkable. I will
just close by quickly saying
Marco Rubio showed
something that had been missing
this entire
campaign, humor. There had been
no humor.
It had been a humorless campaign
in both sides.
And I thought he really did it
very well,
in a natural way, comfortable in
his own skin,
and really put Donald Trump
right back on
his heels.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it certainly
was at the
expense of Donald Trump.
Did Rubio damage Donald Trump
last night with
some of these very, very tough
comments, Ramesh,
about the fact that he inherited
his money,
what he did with so-called Trump
University
and on and on?
RAMESH PONNURU: Maybe even more
surprising
than how well Donald Trump has
been doing
in the Republican primaries has
been that
he has faced almost no real
resistance in
the debates or in the ad war so
far.
And that ended last night, and I
thought Senator
Rubio did do a good job, and
Senator Cruz
did as well to a lesser extent,
in pointing
out all of the many
vulnerabilities that Trump
has on the questions of, does he
really tell
it like it is? Is he really on
your side?
The question, of course, is, is
it too late?
JUDY WOODRUFF: And is it? What
do you think?
RAMESH PONNURU: Well, it's the
-- by drowning
it out with the Christie
endorsement, that,
I think, shows you that the
Trump people thought
that it was a potential problem,
because it's
not as though Christie makes
sense in terms
of swaying voters in Alabama,
Tennessee and
Texas.
MARK SHIELDS: No.
RAMESH PONNURU: That is because
he is at risk
of suffering in the polls
everywhere because
of this onslaught of attacks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You're saying
they did this
to move the bad performance or
not the strongest
performance in the debate.
RAMESH PONNURU: Yes, I think the
timing of
it makes the most sense.
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I think it
was trying
to change the story, no question
about it.
But what was interesting, Judy,
was that Marco
Rubio, who had been terminally
nervous the
last time we had seen him in New
Hampshire,
not South Carolina, but New
Hampshire, in
suffering from chronic
thirstiness and all
the rest of it in that debate
there, came
on last night, and what he did
was he out-Trumped
Trump.
He bullied the bully. He used
Trump's tactics,
got right up in his face, used
mocking humor,
wouldn't let him finish a
sentence, and really
took Trump's game away from
Trump, and, I
mean, changed himself in the
process.
But it does show you Trump's
game plan is
seen by even his adversaries as
the winning
game plan, that is, the New York
values, in
your face. Same to you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So does it help?
Mark, does
it help Marco Rubio? Does it
hurt Donald Trump?
Is it too late?
MARK SHIELDS: We will find out.
We will find
out, certainly, the early
indication on that,
on Tuesday, Judy.
But I just think you had -- your
perception
of Marco Rubio had to change. I
think your
perception of Donald Trump had
to change last
night. I mean, this was Donald
Trump on the
defensive saying, when he was
asked about
the Trump University, I have won
most of those
lawsuits.
Now, that hardly sounds like
somebody who's
founding Amherst or Wesleyan or
Notre Dame,
saying with pride. So, I just --
I thought
he was very much on the
defensive.
RAMESH PONNURU: When is the last
time you
heard a presidential candidate
boast about
being audited, as though that
were a defense
of...
JUDY WOODRUFF: And why he's not
putting his
tax returns out.
RAMESH PONNURU: Right. Exactly.
It was important for Rubio not
to just land
a punch on Trump in order to
take him down.
It was also to address this
lingering concern
that Republicans have that maybe
he's not
tough enough.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
RAMESH PONNURU: So, I do think
it doesn't
just hurt Trump, but also helps
Rubio.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me ask
you about
Ted Cruz, though, because this
is the one
other Republican besides Donald
Trump who
has won a contest.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He won the Iowa
caucuses. Marco
Rubio hasn't won anything yet.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mark, everybody's
saying Cruz
has to win his home state of
Texas. Do you
agree with that?
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What else does he
need to do
right now?
MARK SHIELDS: He has to win.
Well, I think
he has to win another state.
But you're right about Marco
Rubio. Marco
Rubio has yet to win anywhere.
And he's, according
to polls, trailing in his home
state, where
there have been already been, I
found out
today, 200,000 early ballots
cast. And it's
hard to believe...
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Texas.
MARK SHIELDS: And in Florida.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Oh, in Florida.
MARK SHIELDS: Already in
Florida, which is
not until the 15th.
And the speculation is that a
pretty sizable
proportion of those are Trump
votes at this
point. So, Donald Trump has
changed the Republican
electorate. He's increased it.
He's increased
it dramatically. He's brought
people in.
And so Marco Rubio has to win
somewhere. He
certainly has to win in Florida,
but -- his
home state. And I just think the
same thing
is true for John Kasich in his
home state.
If he's not going to win his
home state, I
think he will get out before
losing his home
state, which Rick Santorum, you
will recall,
did in 2012 before the
Pennsylvania primary,
which is -- it's just an
embarrassment to
lose your home state.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ramesh, where do
you see the
path for Cruz? And what about
John Kasich?
RAMESH PONNURU: Well, because of
the calendar,
Senator Cruz faces this home
state test before
Kasich and Rubio do.
So, if he loses Texas on
Tuesday, then I think
that it becomes very hard for
him to stay
in the race. He was supposed to
do well in
a lot of states on Tuesday...
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
RAMESH PONNURU: ... but
especially Texas would
be a problem.
The stakes aren't quite as high
for Rubio,
but let's not forget, we're not
just talking
about momentum at this point.
We're talking
about actual delegates. And
people do start
to be -- need to start winning
some of these
delegates.
(CROSSTALK)
MARK SHIELDS: If he wins
Massachusetts and
Alabama, he being Trump, that is
quite an
achievement.
And he's running ahead in both
those states.
Can you imagine two states more
demographically
and ideologically different,
even to Republicans.
But, I mean, so he's showing
strength at this
point that the others have to
disprove.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Let's talk about
the Democrats.
You just heard our report from
South Carolina
last night.
MARK SHIELDS: I did. Excellent
report.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Thank you.
But, Mark, my question is, where
does the
Democratic race stand? Hillary
Clinton right
now way ahead in the polls in
South Carolina.
Bernie Sanders' people
themselves don't expect
him to win. They're focusing on
Super Tuesday.
What is -- who needs to do what
at this point?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, she needs a
convincing
victory, but she also more than
anything else
has to demonstrate enthusiasm,
some passion
on the part of voters.
The Democratic turnout has been
down, in spite
of the excitement generated by
Bernie Sanders
among younger voters, especially
in New Hampshire
and Iowa. But it's been down.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Compared to the
Republicans.
MARK SHIELDS: Compared to 2008,
and the Republican
is up.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Oh.
MARK SHIELDS: And that is an
early indicator
of where both parties are in any
given presidential
year, when there is that kind of
intensity
and passion on one side and the
absence of
it.
So, I think Senator -- Secretary
Clinton has
to demonstrate that she is able
to generate
enthusiasm, intensity, passion.
I think she
has to win decisively there, no
more four-point,
five-point victories, a la
Nevada.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And cutting right
into Super
Tuesday, which is just a few
days away.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes. That's right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ramesh, how do
you see the
Democratic -- the challenge both
that Secretary
Clinton and Senator Sanders
face?
RAMESH PONNURU: Well, the
problem for Senator
Sanders is not just that he is
so far behind
in South Carolina. It's that he
is behind
because he's not doing well with
African-Americans.
And that is a sign of his great
weakness in
these primary contests. You
can't win the
Democratic nomination if you
can't get a lot
of African-American votes.
The problem for Hillary Clinton
is that there's
no putting Senator Sanders away.
That is,
I think he got into the race as
a cause candidate,
as somebody who wanted to make a
point. And
then it became possible for him
maybe to win.
If it stops being possible for
him to win,
his original rationale doesn't
disappear,
and there is no reason for him
to drop out
of the race. He just stays in
there and makes
his point.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But you're not
saying we're
at that point now, are you?
RAMESH PONNURU: I'm not. but I'm
saying that
even if Clinton does very well
in South Carolina,
it just causes him to go back to
protest mode.
It doesn't mean that he's -- I
think there
is no reason for him to drop out
because he's
angling for a Cabinet
appointment in the Clinton
administration, the way a normal
primary candidate
would be.
MARK SHIELDS: Two quick points
to support
Ramesh's central point.
First is that Democrats have
proportional
representation. So, Bernie
Sanders, with 40
percent of the delegates at the
Democratic
Convention, and if that's the
case in Philadelphia,
what does he want? Does he want
a platform?
Does he want Hillary Clinton...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because you
expect him to win
some contests.
MARK SHIELDS: Oh, I expect him
to win.
JUDY WOODRUFF: More contests.
MARK SHIELDS: Even if it goes
the best way
for Clinton from this point
forward, yes,
I do think he will win states
and he will
surprise us.
But I say that because this
gives him enormous
leverage, and he does -- and the
other -- second
thing is, you already see Senate
candidates,
Democratic Senate candidates
echoing and mimicking
his words and his issues,
talking about the
economy being rigged in the very
language
that Bernie Sanders has used.
So he's already having an impact
and an influence
far beyond what anybody
expected, perhaps
even himself, when this began.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Coming out of her
Nevada win
last weekend, Ramesh, Bernie
Sanders says
words to the effect, Hillary
Clinton is already
adopting some of what we
believe, so that's
already taking place.
RAMESH PONNURU: That's right.
She's talked about having a
public option
in health care again. And that
is, I think,
the Sanders influence.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ramesh Ponnuru,
Mark Shields,
it couldn't get any more
exciting than it
is right now. Thank you both.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
RAMESH PONNURU: Thanks for
having me.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: An election was
also center
stage in Iran today. Voters
streamed to the
polls in a high-stakes contest
with far-reaching
consequences.
Turnout was so heavy that voting
was extended
more than five hours past the
original closing
time.
Hari Sreenivasan has the story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's an
election that could
shape Iran for years to come.
Millions of
people crowded into some 53,000
polling stations.
WOMAN (through translator): One
shouldn't
be indifferent. I vote for the
future of our
country and for a higher level
of our welfare.
HARI SREENIVASAN: They're
deciding who wins
the 290 seats in Parliament,
plus the 88 positions
in the Assembly of Experts, a
group of clerics
that chooses the country's
supreme leader.
There were multiple appeals
today to get out
the vote. The current supreme
leader, 76-year-old
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, has been
in power
since 1989, and represents
conservative hard-liners.
AYATOLLAH ALI KHAMENEI, Supreme
Leader of
Iran (through translator): We
have enemies
who are eying us greedily.
Turnout in the
elections should be as such that
our enemy
will be disappointed and will
lose hope. People
should be observant and vote
with open eyes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: A vetting
panel, appointed
partly by Khamenei, had blocked
thousands
of reformist candidates from
running for Parliament,
and about 80 percent of those
running for
the Assembly of Experts.
But the more-moderate forces,
led by President
Hassan Rouhani, hoped to chip
away at hard-line
dominance.
HASSAN ROUHANI, Iranian
President (through
translator): Today, our friends
and enemies
from around the world are gazing
at Islamic
Iran. I have no doubt that the
Iranian nation,
like always, will create another
epic turnout
at this very sensitive juncture
in time.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The vote is,
to some degree,
a referendum on Rouhani's
promises of greater
freedoms and economic reform.
It's also the first election
since the nuclear
deal with the U.S. and other
world powers
signed last summer. Under the
agreement, Iran
is curbing its nuclear program,
in exchange
for international sanctions
relief.
Just today, the U.N.'s nuclear
watchdog found
Tehran is mostly complying with
the deal so
far. The election outcome is
also being closely
watched in Washington. Full
election returns
are not expected until early
next week.
Joining me now for more on the
Iranian elections
and what may come next is Thomas
Erdbrink.
He's the Tehran bureau chief for
The New York
Times.
Thomas, we have heard several
headlines today
that the polls have been full of
people, the
lines have been long and that
they're extending
voting. What have you seen on
the ground?
THOMAS ERDBRINK, The New York
Times: That's
definitely what I have seen as
well, especially
in the more middle-class areas
of Tehran.
You should know that Tehran is a
city of 12
million people, has a lot of
different areas,
but up in the north and the west
of the city,
you could see long lines at each
polling station
almost throughout the day, from
the morning
all the way up to the evening.
There were
four extensions in some areas,
so people over
there really wanted to go out
and vote.
But when you would go down to
the south of
Tehran, where more poorer people
live, you
would see a different picture,
half-empty
polling stations, maybe
half-a-dozen people
around casting their ballots.
So, there was
a big divide in Tehran.
And, of course, I have no idea
what it, nationwide,
looked like, but at least one
thing is for
sure. There was a very high
turnout among
Tehran's middle classes, the
same people who
have supported President Rouhani
in the past
and are clearly, by voting in
this parliamentary
elections, also trying to
support him now.
HARI SREENIVASAN: We have also
heard that
this is not -- this is certainly
not like
an American election, and that
there has already
been a pre-selection of who is
allowed to
run for many of the open seats.
THOMAS ERDBRINK: Well, of
course, it's always
hard to compare elections
worldwide, but,
yes, it is definitely true.
There is a clerical council that
is half elected
by the people indirectly and
half appointed
by Supreme Leader Khamenei. And
they have
disqualified around 6,000 out of
12,000 candidates
for these two elections that the
Iranians
have been voting for today on
Friday.
These people are the gatekeepers
of Iran's
electoral process. And what they
look at is
if someone is loyal to the
principles of the
ideology of the Islamic
Republic, if you will,
and also if he or she is a good
Muslim.
But, of course, this also gives
space for
certain political groups not to
have the presence
that they would like to have in
the political
process. And this is what
happens to the country's
reformists, who saw thousands of
their candidates
actually being disqualified,
but, at the same
time, their candidates that were
allowed to
run today called upon people to
massively
go out and vote, which their
supporters actually
did.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Even with
these constraints
that the clerical council puts
on this process,
what are the moderates or the
reformists hoping
to accomplish?
THOMAS ERDBRINK: This election
is just a stop
in the long road of fighting, if
you will,
political fighting between
people we could
refer to as reformists vs.,
let's say, hard-liners.
Now, this fight has been going
on for decades,
and the reformers in the last 10
years, in
all honesty, have almost lost
every time.
Now, what they have been trying
to achieve
is to make sure that as many of
their supporters,
of the reformer supporters came
out and voted
today in order to prevent these
hard-liners
from keeping their grip on the
Parliament.
So, what reformist leaders have
been telling
me is actually, any seat we can
win from the
hard-liners is a victory for us.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Thomas Erdbrink,
Tehran bureau chief of The New
York Times,
thanks so much for joining us.
THOMAS ERDBRINK: Thanks for
having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Academy
Awards will be
given out this Sunday. But
instead of the
nominees, much of the focus this
year is on,
as the hashtag on Twitter has
it, Oscars so
white, and Hollywood's lack of
diversity.
Jeffrey Brown has more.
JEFFREY BROWN: Richard Pryor at
the Academy
Awards in 1977:
RICHARD PRYOR, Comedian: I'm
here to explain
why no black people will ever be
nominated
for anything.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: Chris Rock 28
years later.
CHRIS ROCK, Comedian: We have
four black nominees
tonight. So, great. It's kind of
like the
Def Oscar Jam tonight.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: In some ways,
Hollywood's lack
of diversity is an old story,
but as Rock
prepares to host his second
Oscar ceremony,
and for a second straight year,
no actors
of color were nominated, the
stakes and anger
have risen, including calls for
a boycott
of the event.
JADA PINKETT SMITH, Actress: I
will not be
at the Academy Awards, and I
won't be watching.
JEFFREY BROWN: The Academy of
Motion Pictures,
the group that oversees and
votes on nominations,
announced new rules to develop a
younger,
more diverse Oscar voting pool,
the aim, double
the number of female and
minority members
by 2020.
But many see the problem as much
deeper.
SPIKE LEE, Director: It goes
further than
the Academy Awards. It has to go
back to the
gatekeepers.
GEORGE STEPHANOPOULOS, ABC News:
Studios.
SPIKE LEE: Yes, the people who
have the green-light
vote.
IDRIS ELBA, Actor: Talent is
everywhere, but
opportunity isn't. Talent can't
reach opportunity
unaided.
JEFFREY BROWN: Idris Elba, whose
performance
in "Beasts of No Nation" was
widely praised,
recently spoke of roadblocks he
faced early
in his career.
IDRIS ELBA: I realized I could
only play so
many best friends or gang
leaders. Right?
I knew that I wasn't going to
land a leading
role. I knew there wasn't enough
imagination,
not yet, for the industry to be
seeing me
as a lead.
JEFFREY BROWN: In recent years,
television
has presented more diverse
programming, hit
shows like "Orange Is the New
Black" and "Jane
the Virgin."
And just last week, ABC made
Channing Dungey,
who helped develop shows like
"Black-ish,"
the first African-American to
head a network.
But it was only last year that
Viola Davis
became the first black woman to
win an Emmy
for best actress in a drama
series.
She spoke of the obstacles.
VIOLA DAVIS, Actress: You cannot
win an Emmy
for roles that are simply not
there.
JEFFREY BROWN: How host Chris
Rock will address
all of this is now part of the
fun and seriousness
of Sunday night's ceremony.
CHRIS ROCK: Let's do this.
JEFFREY BROWN: And we look at
the situation
and the potential way forward
now with Darnell
Hunt, professor of sociology at
UCLA and co-author
of an annual report on Hollywood
diversity,
Alex Nogales, president of the
National Hispanic
Media Coalition, which advocates
for more
inclusive representation of
Latinos in film
and TV, and Sharon Waxman,
founder of The
Wrap, a news site covering the
entertainment
and media industries.
And welcome to all three of you.
I want to start with you,
Darnell Hunt.
And help us first briefly define
the problem
and what you see as its source.
DARNELL HUNT, Professor of
Sociology, UCLA:
Well, what we're dealing with is
a disconnect
between, on the one hand, the
increasing diversity
of American society -- we're
almost 40 percent
minority -- on the other hand,
the fact that,
stubbornly, the industry just
can't seem to
make diverse projects.
In our study, we find that, on
every front,
people of color and women are
underrepresented,
behind the camera, in front of
the camera.
And yet we also see, from
audience consumption
patterns, that people of color,
diverse audiences,
crave diverse content.
So we have a situation where the
people who
are running the industry, and
largely white
males, aren't in a position to
make the types
of projects that people want.
And that's the
fundamental issue. It's trying
to figure out
how to bring more people in the
room, how
to get more voices and
perspective into the
process.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, so Alex
Nogales, tell
us how it plays out. You work
sometimes with
the experiences of Latinos and
others, what
kind of roles they get or don't
get, what
kind -- what they run up against
as writers
or Directors.
ALEX NOGALES, President,
National Hispanic
Media Coalition: Well, they
can't even get
in.
The opportunities are not there.
As Darnell
just said, the problem is that
you have 95
percent whites in leadership
positions at
all of the studios, the six
studios here in
town. And you have a majority of
them being
males. So, they rose up in the
ranks of this
whole thing called film, and
they have made
their alliances, they have made
their friendships,
they have made their
relationships.
And so when it's time to call
for a new product,
that's who they call in, other
people that
are like them, that are white,
that are male,
and so forth. And the reflection
then doesn't
include us. The jobs are not
there because
the people at the very top are
not making
the decisions that are ones of
inclusion.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, Sharon
Waxman, is that
the industry you see, that you
cover every
day? Is it about who you know?
Is it about
overt racism or sexism? Is it
all about money?
What?
SHARON WAXMAN, Editor in Chief,
TheWrap.Com:
Well, I think it's worse than
that because
you have a culturally very
liberal entertainment
industry, famously so, in which
people are
politically very much to the
left. You see
that in some of the programming
choices and
the messages, whether it's
Norman Lear for
so many years and the television
that he wrote
that heavily influenced American
society in
the '70s, or whether you see
that with "Will
& Grace" or shows like -- shows
like that
that push the needle forward on
social issues
all the time.
But it is true that the issue of
decision-makers
being primarily white and male,
with some
notable exceptions, has been the
case. I do
think that this is essentially a
small community
of people who come up together,
who call on
their friends. If you are in a
studio job
and you leave a studio job, you
become a producer,
and your buddy then calls you up
and asks
you for your latest pitches.
So it has to be more thoughtful,
significant
and proactive effort to change
that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, so, Darnell
Hunt, as
a sociologist, you are studying
individuals
within institutions. Right? And
this is a
primary example. Do you see
successes? Do
you see places where there has
been progress
made, potential models?
DARNELL HUNT: Yes, I think there
are lots
of models.
The successes, though,
unfortunately, are
the exceptions to the rule.
Business as usual
in the industry, as our report
shows, our
2016 report shows, is more of
the same. It's
under-representation for people
of color and
women.
ABC's move, I think, was a very
bold move,
but it made business sense. This
woman had
been the executive vice
president for drama
development. And she was the
person who's
responsible for a lot of those
Shonda Rhimes
shows that are doing really well
on ABC, as
well as some of their other
prime-time dramas.
So, it just made sense for her
to become head
of that network because of the
network she
has and the connections she has
with the creative
community. And it's
forward-thinking. It's
looking at where America is
going. And I think
a lot of ABC's programming kind
of gestures
toward that present and that
future.
So, I think that other networks
and studios
need to get into this game as
well.
JEFFREY BROWN: Alex Nogales,
continue that
forward thinking for us, if you
would. When
you go to the studio, what are
you saying?
What are you asking for? What's
the pitch?
ALEX NOGALES: In the year
2000-2001, the Multi-Ethnic
Media Coalition signed
memorandums of understanding
with ABC, NBC, CBS and FOX. And
for us, that's
a model that we're going to
utilize with the
six studios.
And the reason for that is
because it's working.
It is working slowly, but it's
working.
JEFFREY BROWN: What does it say?
Tell us specifically,
what does that mean?
ALEX NOGALES: That they're going
to diversify
their work force both in front
and in back
of camera. They're going to give
you -- they're
going to give us the actual
numbers of who
is working in front and in back
of camera,
and that we are going to be
partners in this
enterprise of diversifying the
work force.
It's working on television
slowly, but it's
working. Now we have to make it
work as well
in film.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Sharon
Waxman, to the extent
that this is an old issue, is it
possible
to tell yet how much of an
impact all the
most recent kind of anger and
uproar has had
or might have?
SHARON WAXMAN: Right.
So, the Academy of Motion
Picture Arts and
Sciences, which governs the
Oscars, has adopted
very significant changes in the
wake of this
latest protest. They are going
to try to double
the number of minorities and
women in the
Academy voting membership by the
year 2020,
and they're phasing out people
who haven't
been active in the Academy -- or
in the industry
-- sorry -- for the past 10
years.
I don't know if that's going to
really make
the change that they need. This
really means
they need to admit a lot of
people of color
and a lot of women over the next
five years.
You need to find those qualified
people. People
do want to see change, but there
is no stakeholder
with power within the industry
that has the
wherewithal to drive that
change.
So, they always end up being
kind of window
dressing. So, I would be curious
to see. I
would be -- hope, for Alex
Nogales' sake and
for all of our sakes, that those
agreements
that he signed really do lead to
substantive
change.
Now, I do think that public
shaming is not
a bad way to do that, which is
what has happened
this year. But, ultimately,
these are media
companies that answer to their
shareholders,
so we can't -- we have to make
an economic
argument for that. And I think
there is a
strong economic argument for
that.
JEFFREY BROWN: Darnell Hunt,
just a brief
last word. Are you hopeful as
this point as
we prepare to watch the Oscars?
DARNELL HUNT: Well, you know,
I'm a cautious
optimist. I think we have to
keep applying
the pressure.
There is no magic bullet. We
have to approach
this from every front. The
economic argument
is a strong one. Our study shows
inconclusive
-- I mean, shows conclusively
that, you know,
diversity sells.
Audiences of color are craving
that content,
and shows that are diverse, on
average, do
better on ratings and movies do
better at
the box office. So, we just have
to keep amassing
the data. It's there, and it's
only going
to become more profound as time
goes on, as
the population becomes more
diverse.
JEFFREY BROWN: Darnell Hunt,
Alex Nogales,
and Sharon Waxman, thank you,
all three, very
much.
DARNELL HUNT: Thank you.
ALEX NOGALES: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can find
more of our
coverage of this year's films on
our Art Beat
page. That's at
PBS.org/NewsHour.
The White House was rocking last
night with
a tribute to the music of Ray
Charles. President
Obama even took the microphone.
Here's a peek at the evening.
(MUSIC)
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States:
Hope you had a great time. Thank
you!
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you can tune
in tonight
for the entire show, "In
Performance at the
White House." That's on most PBS
stations.
An update to a story that aired
last night.
Tijuana, Mexico's police chief,
Alejandro
Lares, resigned today after he
was asked to
leave by city officials. This
comes one day
after an investigation aired
here on the "NewsHour"
by public TV station KPBS
looking at the city's
strategy, arrests and police
raids of homeless
migrants.
On the "NewsHour" online: For
food and travel
lovers, the ultimate experience
is being able
to eat like a local. Now, thanks
to the sharing
economy, you can. Much like
Airbnb, the site
Traveling Spoon connects
travelers with hosts,
but, instead of a bed, you get a
home-cooked
meal. We visited a home chef in
Mexico recently
to try it out. You can read
about that and
find a recipe for his famous
stuffed peppers.
And see how the presidential
candidates stack
up when it comes to the fastest
growing expense
in the nation's health care
budget. That's
prescription drug costs. We have
a report
from Kaiser Health News on our
home page.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And a reminder about some
upcoming programs
from our PBS colleagues.
Gwen Ifill is preparing for
"Washington Week,"
which airs later. Here's a
preview:
GWEN IFILL: It's fair to say
nobody saw this
week coming. The Republican
Senate threw down
the gauntlet at the Democratic
White House
on Guantanamo and the Supreme
Court. And the
gloves came off, dramatically
and noisily,
in the Republican race for the
presidential
nomination. Who will blink? Not
sure I have
an answer, but we will try to
explain how
it's come to this tonight on
"Washington Week"
-- Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On "PBS NewsHour
Weekend" Saturday:
why some Iranian-Americans fear
they could
be in violation of U.S.
sanctions against
Iran.
JAMAL ABDI, National Iranian
American Council:
An average Iranian-American who
has family
in Iran, unless they're willing
to spend all
the time to do due diligence,
there's nothing
they can do that doesn't
potentially violate
the sanctions.
RICHARD NEPHEW, Brookings
Institution: Sanctions
are only as good as the
psychological fear
they create in people engaged in
illicit conduct.
You want them to be afraid of
breaking the
rules.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That's tomorrow
night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Have a great weekend. Thank you,
and good
night.